Data Streams - Streams Direct (#1907)
smartcontractkit/documentation: src/content/data-streams/architecture.mdx

---
section: dataStreams
title: "Data Streams Architecture"

> isIndex: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think this can be removed?

1. The `performUpkeep` function calls the `verify` function on the Data Streams onchain verifier contract and passes the report as a variable.
1. The verifier contract returns a `verifierResponse` bytes value to the upkeep.
1. If the response indicates that the report is valid, the upkeep executes the user's requested trade. If the response is invalid, the upkeep rejects the trade and notifies the user.

This is one example of how you can combine Data Streams and Automation, but the systems are highly configurable. You can write your own log triggers or [custom logic triggers](/chainlink-automation/guides/register-upkeep) to initiate Automation upkeeps for a various array of events. You can configure the `StreamsLookup` to retrieve multiple reports. You can configure the `performUpkeep` function to perform a wide variety of actions using the report.

Read the [Getting Started](/data-streams/getting-started) guide to learn how to build your own smart contract that retrieves reports from Data Streams using the Streams Trade implementation.

## Streams Direct Architecture

<DataStreams section="streamsDirectEarlyAccess" />

#### Example of offchain price updates with Streams Direct

> Streams Direct facilitates seamless, offchain price updates through a robust mechanism designed for real-time data delivery. Here is an example of how your Client will benefit from low-latency market data directly from the Data Streams Aggregation Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Streams Direct enables seamless offchain price updates through a mechanism designed for real-time data delivery. Here is an example of how your Client will benefit from low-latency market data directly from the Data Streams Aggregation Network.
```

1. The Client opens a WebSocket connection to the Data Streams Aggregation Network to subscribe to new reports with low latency.

> 1. The Data Streams Aggregation Network sends price reports via WebSocket, giving the Client instant access to updated market data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Data Streams Aggregation Network sends price reports via WebSocket, which gives the Client instant access to updated market data.
```

> 1. The Client stores the price reports in a cache for quick access and use, preserving data integrity over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Client stores the price reports in a cache for quick access and use, which preserves data integrity over time.
```

> 1. The Client regularly queries `/client/bulk` for any missed reports, ensuring data completeness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Client regularly queries `/client/bulk` for any missed reports to ensure data completeness.
```

> 1. If the Data Streams Aggregation Network identifies missed reports, it sends an array of these reports back. This mechanism allows the Client to update its cache and to keep the data set complete and up-to-date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the Data Streams Aggregation Network identifies missed reports, it sends back an array of these reports. This mechanism allows the Client to update its cache and to keep the data set complete and up-to-date.
```
